In the last lecture, we learned some of the DevOps tools for each of these DevOps phases.
In this lecture, let's find out how you can use some of these tools to create real world DevOps workflows.
The first workflow we want to look at is a very popular workflow where you have some sort of program
and you want to deploy your program or application code to your environment.
For this example, I'm using the programming language of Java, but the similar flow will be applicable
for any other programming language.
But some of the tools may change based on the programming language you use, and I will call that out.
So let's start from the beginning.
In the author phase, you the almighty developer.
Using a IDE such as Visual Studio code created this Java program and then you check in that code to
a GitHub repository.
Now the most popular DevOps tool, Jenkins, is integrated with GitHub out of the box.
So as soon as you check in your code.
Jenkins gets a trigger and grab your code from the GitHub repository and then builds your code and creates
this jar file.
Then Jenkins run unit testing using J unit.
Now for Java, you use G-Unit unit.
Depending on the programming language, this unique testing framework will change in addition to creating
this jar file.
You can also save this jar file in a factory such as Jfrog or a code artifact.
Then in the testing phase you can run load testing using aperture diameter and when everything is good,
you can use Ansible script to grab the code from Jfrog R2 factory and deploy it into a VMs such as Amazon
EC2.
And finally, in the continuous monitor phase, you can use Cloud Watch to monitor the metrics for both
Amazon EC2 as well as the metrics you create for your application.
So you might be thinking where the heck is cloud formation or terraform in this workflow?
So remember that cloud formation and TerraForm is infrastructure as code.
In the previous example, you actually built and tested and deployed an application code into an ISA
too.
Now you can think of using cloud formation or TerraForm to provision that running.
Easy to say.
For example, you want to provision a WordPress server.
So WordPress actually uses a lamp stack.
So lamp stands for Linux, Apache, MySQL PHP.
So under the hood you need to provision a couple of easy tos along with the MySQL database to run the
WordPress server.
So you can codify all that in your cloud formation or TerraForm and you can check those in into your
GitHub repository.
Similarly, your Jenkins job can get submitted automatically as soon as you checked in your templates,
and that Jenkins job will run the cloud formation or TerraForm create the Amazon.
Easy to bring that WordPress packages and start running it.
But you might be thinking Raj, this WordPress application is an application.
Don't I need to build it and test it?
You would have if you have brought your own application, but WordPress actually gives you the entire
package that you can just download into your C2.
So this is a snippet of the WordPress cloud formation.
As you could see, WordPress tells you that grab this zip file from this WordPress dot org website and
you can copy it on your easy to using cloud formation.
That's why no build or test is needed.
Let's look at another popular example, which is provisioning your Kubernetes cluster.
Now again, remember, provisioning Kubernetes cluster is different than deploying your application
container into that cluster.
Similarly to the previous example, you were going to check in the cloud formation or TerraForm, which
is creating the Kubernetes cluster into a GitHub repository, and a Jenkins job will get submitted automatically
execute the template and bring up your Kubernetes cluster.
So Kubernetes cluster at the end of the day is a combination of control plan and ESI tools running as
worker plan.
And I'm not talking about forget because running easy tools at the worker node is still the most popular
way to run Kubernetes clusters.
So after you run this template, the Kubernetes cluster will be up and running with easy tools.
All right.
So at this point, we have our Kubernetes cluster up and running.
Now, let's look at the workflow where you actually deploy your application to the Kubernetes cluster.
So we are going to learn two different workflow.
The first workflow we are going to learn is the traditional way of deploying to Kubernetes cluster.
But then we are going to look at a newer workflow.
So for this workflow, in the other phase, you write your application program such as Java.
In addition to writing this program, you also need to write a Docker file which can contain arise your
application.
So you check in your application program along with this Docker file into the GitHub repository.
The Jenkins job gets triggered, grabs the application program as well as the Docker file, and then
it creates the container image with your jar file.
Inside this Docker container image, like previously, you can use a unit to run unit testing.
And in addition to creating this container image, you will save this container image into a container
image registry such as Docker Hub or a native Amazon ACR.
Then you can run some testing using aperture diameter.
Again, unit diameter is related to Java.
If you are using Python, you can use PI test, low cost, etc. And if you need to do penetration testing,
you need to use different softwares.
So look up some of the softwares.
It changes based on the application program before your interview.
Now to deploy this container image to the running x cluster, you need another artifact.
We call this the manifest file.
So this manifest file is a YAML file which kind of instructs where to get the container image from,
how many copies of the container should run, etc. And the Kubernetes job that's running this deploy
phase will have the permission to deploy to this running X cluster.
And when this manifest file is run, generally using some sort of cube CTL command such as cube, it'll
apply dash F the name of the manifest file that will grab the saved container image from ACR or Docker
hub and deploy it into this running x cluster.
So I know there is a lot going on here, but as you know, Kubernetes is a little complex and it is
a code on its own.
Now, this is the old way of doing things.
The newest way to deploy to Kubernetes is Gitops.
So let's take a quick sneak peek at that.
So I wanted to show a snippet of this workflow because as you could see, this one does not follow the
traditional model as in order to check, build, test, etc. Gitops is a relatively new concept.
You can use different DevOps concepts such as Jenkins to build the container image update, the Kubernetes
manifest file and the Gitops tool such as Argo CD Flux to deploy your application container to the Kubernetes
cluster.
Don't worry, we are going to go deep into this gitops flow along with doing hands on when we actually
go over Kubernetes real world implementation with Gitops.
But I just wanted to give you the idea that in real world projects, especially recent Kubernetes projects,
you will use traditional DevOps components such as Jenkins, as well as brand new DevOps components
such as Gitops to create these unique workflows.
So at this point, we understood how different DevOps tools can be used for different DevOps phases
and create these different DevOps workflows.
And throughout the course, we are going to explore many different workflows as well as implement it.
All right, folks.
See you in the next lecture.